ABEYANCE TRAP
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: A taserlike contraption
Ardeyn: A rod
Ruk: A flechette gun
Effect: To activate the cypher, the user must succeed on a ranged attack against a creature within
short range whose level does not exceed the cypher’s level. The creature goes into abeyance,
exactly as if it had translated to another recursion, except that no version of the creature appears
in any other recursion. Instead, the affected creature simply doesn’t exist for one hour. At the
end of that time, the creature returns, having no memory of lost time or continuity of existence.
(Creatures without the spark are not affected by this cypher.)
AGE TAKER
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: A syringe filled with red fluid
Ardeyn: An elixir in a glass vial
Ruk: A spine
Effect: When activated, the cypher begins a process of rejuvenation that removes years from the
wearer’s physiological age. Over the course of the next seven days, the wearer sheds a number of
years equal to three times the cypher’s level. The cypher doesn’t regress physiological age past the
age of twenty-three years.
 ANALEPTIC
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handful of green pills
Ardeyn: Green potion
Ruk: Spine graft
Effect: Substance restores a number of points equal to the cypher’s level to the user’s Speed Pool.
 ANTIDOTE
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Large pill
Ardeyn: A jar of unguent
Ruk: Injector
Effect: Ends an ongoing poison, paralysis, or disease condition, if any, already in the user’s system.
 ARMOR REINFORCER
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Electronic device affixed to clothes or armor
Ardeyn: Periapt affixed to clothes or armor
Ruk: A biomechanical graft
Effect: The user’s Armor gains an enhancement for a day. Roll a d6 to determine the result.
1 +1 Armor
2 +2 Armor
3 +3 Armor
4 +2 Armor, +5 against damage from fire
5 +2 Armor, +5 against damage from cold
6 +2 Armor, +5 against damage from acid
 ATTRACTOR
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Black leather glove
Ardeyn: Gold ring with a red gem
Ruk: Palm graft
Effect: One unanchored item your size or smaller within long range is drawn immediately to the
device. This takes one round. The item has no momentum when it arrives.
 BLACKOUT
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: A one-use smartphone app
Ardeyn: A candle
Ruk: A red froglike organ that sings
Effect: When activated, an area within immediate range of the user becomes secure against
any effect outside the area that sees, hears, or otherwise senses what occurs inside. To outside
observers, the area is a “blur” to any sense applied. Taps, scrying sensors, and other direct feed
surveillance methods are also rendered inoperative within the area for the duration.
 CONDITION REMOVER
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: Little yellow pill
Ardeyn: Little yellow dragon imp
Ruk: Spine graft
Effect: Cures one occurrence of one of the following health conditions. It does not prevent the
possibility of future occurrences of the same condition gained from a different or similar source. Roll
a d20 to determine what it cures.
d20 Cures
1 Addiction to one substance
2 Autoimmune disease
3 Bacterial infection
4 Bad breath
5 Blisters
6 Bloating
7 Cancer
8 Chapped lips
9 Flatus
10 Heartburn
11 Hiccups
12 Ingrown hairs
13 Insomnia
14 Joint problem
15 Muscle cramp
16 Pimples
17 Psychosis (including 1 factor of alienation)
18 Stiff neck
19 Viral infection
 20 Hangover
 CONTEXTUALIZER
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Smartphone app
Ardeyn: Elixir in a glass vial
Ruk: Green froglike organ
Effect: Explodes in an immediate radius, changing the context of any creature in the area to the
context of the currently occupied recursion. Native creatures and translated visitors are unaffected,
but affected creatures who arrived through an inapposite gate are treated as if they had stepped
through a translation gate to arrive in the current recursion. As a result, certain items possessed
by a target creature, or even a creature itself that does not possess the spark, are immediately
returned to their native recursions.
 CONTINGENT ACTIVATOR
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: A tiny device with connecting wires
Ardeyn: A magic rune inscribed on a scroll
Ruk: A sheath of living slime
Effect: If activated in conjunction with another cypher, the user can specify a condition under
which the linked cypher will activate. The linked cypher retains the contingent command until
the cypher is used (either normally, or contingently). For example, when this cypher is linked to a
cypher that provides a form of healing or protection, the user could specify that the linked cypher
activate if he ever becomes damaged to a certain degree or is subject to a particular dangerous
circumstance.
Until the linked cypher is used, this cypher continues to count toward the maximum number of
cyphers a PC can carry.
 CURATIVE
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: A little blue pill
Ardeyn: A blue elixir
Ruk: Adhesive patch that activates when slapped
Effect: Substance restores a number of points equal to the cypher’s level to the user’s Might Pool.
 CURSE BRINGER
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Small coin with insanely complex embedded chip
Ardeyn: Bronze amulet with a large rune
Ruk: Spider that purrs
Effect: The curse bringer can be activated when given to an individual who doesn’t realize its
significance. The next time the victim attempts an important task when the cypher is in her
possession, the difficulty of the task is modified by three steps to her detriment.
 DARKSIGHT
Level: 1d6
Earth: Goggles
Ardeyn: Bone wand
Ruk: Third eye graft
Effect: Grants the ability to see in the dark for eight hours.
 DEATH MODULE
Level: 1d6
Earth: Small device affixed to a melee or ranged weapon
Ardeyn: Rune affixed to a melee or ranged weapon
Ruk: Pod affixed to a melee or ranged weapon
Effect: For the next minute, when the weapon or its ammunition strikes an NPC or creature whose
level is equal to or less than the cypher’s level, the weapon wielder can choose to make a second
attack roll. If the second attack roll is a success, the target is slain outright. If used successfully
against a PC, the character moves down one step on the damage track.
 DISGUISE MODULE
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Hat
Ardeyn: Scarf
Ruk: A skin graft
Effect: For the next hour, the wearer’s features become almost identical to those of one designated
person the wearer has previously interacted with. This lowers the difficulty by two steps when the
wearer attempts to disguise herself as the designated person. Once designated, the user cannot
shift the effect to look like another person, though she could remove the module to look like
herself again before the end of the hour
 DRAINING CAPACITOR
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device with wires for connection
Ardeyn: A tiny golem
Ruk: An umbilical
Effect: An object connected to the cypher is drained of a portion or all of its energy; an artifact’s
owner must make a depletion roll, a cypher is rendered useless, and another kind of powered
machine or device becomes partly or wholly depowered, as the GM determines. Meanwhile, the
draining capacitor now holds a charge of energy that can be used in one of the following ways.
Grenade: The capacitor can be thrown at a target within short range where it detonates and deals
damage (usually from fire and shrapnel) equal to the cypher’s level to all targets in immediate
range.
Improve Cypher: Give another unused cypher a second use, unless the cypher is fundamentally a
one-use item, such as a grenade.
Repower Cypher: A used cypher is revitalized, becoming as if unused.
Enhance Artifact: An artifact becomes more powerful in a fashion determined by the GM (it deals
more damage, it improves its chance of effect by one step, and so on), but its depletion roll also
increases by 10% (+1 on a d10, +2 on a d20, and +10 on a 1d100)
Intellect Hit: User gains 1d10 Intellect points.
 EFFECT RESISTANCE
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: A leather jacket
Ardeyn: An amulet
Ruk: A spine
Effect: When activated, the cypher provides a chance for additional resistance to direct damaging
effects of all kinds (except blunt force, slashing, or piercing attacks) for a day. If the level of the
attack is less than or equal to the level of the cypher, the user gains an additional defense roll to
avoid the attack. On a successful defense roll, treat the attack as if the user had succeeded on his
regular defense roll.
 EFFORT ENHANCER
Level: 1d6
Earth: Injection
Ardeyn: Lime elixir
Ruk: Adhesive patch that activates when slapped
Effect: The user can apply one level of Effort to a noncombat task without spending any points
from a Pool. The level of Effort provided by this cypher does not count toward the maximum
amount of Effort a character can normally apply to one task.
 EFFORT ENHANCER (COMBAT)
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Three pills taken in sequence
Ardeyn: Rune, transferred to flesh
Ruk: A skin graft
Effect: Once activated (a process requiring a few rounds of setup), the character has a one-hour
period during which she can apply one level of Effort to any task (including a combat task) without
spending any points from a Pool as an enabler. The level of Effort provided by this cypher does not
count toward the maximum amount of Effort a character can normally apply to one task.
çENDURING SHIELD
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Jacket
Ardeyn: Cloak
Ruk: Biomodule
Effect: For a day, the wearer of the activated cypher enjoys the effect of an asset to Speed defense rolls.
 EQUIPMENT CACHE
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Backpack
Ardeyn: Large leather bag
Ruk: Expandable locker
Effect: The character can rummage around and produce from the cypher a desired piece of
equipment that is available on the current recursion (or any recursion with a transit time of less
than a month if used in the Strange) whose level does not exceed the cypher’s level. The object
can’t be an artifact, though it could be somewhat complex. The piece of equipment produced
persists for up to 24 hours, unless its fundamental nature is one-use (such as a grenade on Earth).
 FLASHBURST
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Small grenade
Ardeyn: Handful of dust in a pouch
Ruk: Pulsing organic pod
Effect: If thrown, the cypher travels to the indicated spot within short range and explodes in an
immediate radius, blinding all within it for one minute.
 FOCUS HOOK
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: A blue pill
Ardeyn: A scroll
Ruk: Multihued organic pod
Effect: If used while translating or during the recovery period immediately after translating to
another recursion or prime world, the user can retain the focus of the previous recursion or prime
world even if that focus is not normally draggable. The focus is retained for as long as the user
remains in the new recursion.
 FORCE ARMOR PROJECTOR
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: Belt buckle with a sports team logo
Ardeyn: Delicate silver bracelet
Ruk: Subdermal injection
Effect: Creates a shimmering energy field around the user for one hour, during which time he gains
+3 to Armor (+4 to Armor if the cypher is level 5 or higher).
 FORCE SCREEN PROJECTOR
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Silver medallion with the image of an eagle
Ruk: Steel bracer with a few controls
Effect: Creates an immobile plane of solid force up to 20 feet by 20 feet (6 m by 6 m) for one hour.
The plane conforms to the space available.
GAS AMMUNITION
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Bullet (long range)
Ardeyn: Arrow (long range)
Ruk: Pellet-spitting graft (long range)
Effect: When fired, the cypher bursts in a poisonous cloud within an immediate distance. The
cloud lingers for 1d6 rounds unless conditions dictate otherwise. Roll a d100 to determine the
effect.
01–10 Thick smoke: occludes sight while the cloud lasts.
11–20 Choking gas: living creatures that breathe lose their actions to choking and coughing
for a number of rounds equal to the cypher level.
21–50 Poison gas: living creatures that breathe suffer damage equal to the cypher level.
51–60 Corrosive gas: everything suffers damage equal to the cypher level.
61–65 Hallucinogenic gas: living creatures that breathe lose their actions to hallucinations
and visions for a number of rounds equal to the cypher level.
66–70 Nerve gas: living creatures that breathe suffer Speed damage equal to the cypher level.
71–80 Mind-numbing gas: living creatures that breathe suffer Intellect damage equal to the
cypher level.
81–83 Fear gas: living creatures that breathe and think flee in a random direction in fear (or
are paralyzed with fear) for a number of rounds equal to the cypher level.
84–86 Amnesia gas: living creatures that breathe and think permanently lose all memory of
the last minute.
87–96 Sleep gas: living creatures that breathe fall asleep for a number of rounds equal to the
cypher level or until awoken by a violent action or an extremely loud noise.
97–00 Rage gas: living creatures that breathe and think make a melee attack on the nearest
creature and continue to do so for a number of rounds equal to the cypher level.
 GLUE
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Tube containing sticky paste
Ardeyn: Brittle rune stone
Ruk: Sealed test tube with green fluid
Effect: A permanent bond is created between any two physical objects. The strength of the bond is
equal to the cypher level.
 GRENADE
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Explosive device (thrown, short range)
Ardeyn: A stone with a rune of destruction inscribed on it (thrown, short range)
Ruk: Wristband projector (long range)
Effect: Explodes in an immediate radius, inflicting damage equal to the cypher level. Roll a d100
for the type of damage:
01–10 Cell-disrupting (harms only flesh)
11–30 Corrosive
31–40 Electrical discharge
41–50 Heat drain (cold)
51–75 Fire
76–00 Shrapnel 
GRENADE (CREATURE)
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Explosive device or ceramic sphere (thrown, short range)
Ardeyn: Wand (long range)
Ruk: Handheld projector (long range)
Effect: Explodes and creates a momentary inapposite gate. A random creature whose level is equal
to or less than the cypher's level appears through the gate and attacks the closest target.
 GRENADE (GRAVITY INVERSION)
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Explosive device or ceramic sphere (thrown, short range)
Ardeyn: Wand (long range)
Ruk: Handheld projector (long range)
Effect: Explodes, and gravity reverses for one hour within a long-range radius of the explosion.
 GRENADE (RECURSION)
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Explosive device or ceramic sphere (thrown, short range)
Ardeyn: Wand (long range)
Ruk: Handheld projector (long range)
Effect: Explodes and creates a momentary inapposite gate. Creatures within immediate range are
sucked into a random recursion (all affected creatures go to the same recursion). Some recursion
grenade cyphers transfer targets to a specified recursion. A character who succeeds at a Strange
knowledge roll can determine this recursion ahead of time; the difficulty is equal to the cypher's level.
 GRENADE (RECURSION COLLAPSING)
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Explosive device or ceramic sphere (thrown, short range)
Ardeyn: Wand (long range)
Ruk: Handheld projector (long range)
Effect: Collapses the pocket dimension or young recursion in which it is detonated if the level of
the recursion is half the level of the cypher or less. All contents of the recursion suffer damage
equal to the cypher level and are dumped directly into the Strange.
 INFORMATION LENSES
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Eyeglasses
Ardeyn: Eyepiece on staff head
Ruk: Contact lenses
Effect: The wearer can activate the lenses' function a total number of
times equal to the cypher's level during a day. Each time, the wearer
can select a living creature within long range and learn the following
about it: creature's level, creature's native recursion, creature's species,
creature's name, and possibly other facts (such as an individual's
accessible information on Earth, like his credit score, home address,
phone number, and related information).
INSIGHT
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Smartphone app
Ardeyn: Mirror in which face appears
Ruk: Umbilical
Effect: The user can ask the GM one question and get a general answer (from an appropriate
entity, institution, or object in the particular recursion or area of the Chaosphere in which the
cypher is used). The GM assigns a level to the question, so the more obscure the answer, the
more difficult the task. Generally, knowledge that a PC could find by looking somewhere other than
his current location is level 1, and obscure knowledge of the past is level 7. Gaining knowledge of
the future is level 10, and such knowledge is always open to interpretation.
 INTELLECT BOOSTER
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Small plastic bottle of ingestible liquid
Ardeyn: Gemstone that adheres to user's temple
Ruk: Adhesive patch that activates when slapped
Effect: Substance adds 1 to Intellect Edge for one hour.
 INTELLIGENCE ENHANCEMENT
Level: 1d6
Earth: Smartphone app
Ardeyn: Necklace
Ruk: Cranial graft
Effect: The difficulty of any task involving intelligent deduction, such as playing chess, inferring a
connection between clues, solving a mathematical problem, finding a bug in computer code, and
so on, is decreased by two steps for the user for one hour. In the hour following the first, the strain
increases the difficulty by two steps for the same tasks.
 KNOWLEDGE ENHANCEMENT
Level: 1d6
Earth: Injection
Ardeyn: Mauve elixir
Ruk: Adhesive patch that activates when slapped
Effect: For the next day, the character has training in a predetermined skill. Although the skill could
be anything (including something specific to the operation of one device or something similar),
common skills include the following:
01–10 Melee attacks
11–20 Ranged attacks
21–40 Chaosphere navigation
41–50 Fractal surfing
51–60 Type ability (usually specific to one twist, revision, or move the user has)
61–70 Focus ability (usually specific to one ability the user has)
71–75 Recursion lore (usually specific to one recursion)
76–80 Speed defense
81–85 Intellect defense
86–90 Forensic science
91–95 Computer programming (and computer hacking)
96–00 Disguise 
LIFT
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Belt with wing-motif buckle
Ardeyn: Statute of gargoyle that animates and lifts user
Ruk: Spine graft
Effect: For up to one hour after activation, the cypher user can float up into
the air or back down again at a rate of 20 feet (6 m) per round. Winds or
other effects can move the user laterally.
 MAGNETIC MASTER
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Gloves with metal plates
Ardeyn: Small pyramid of crystal
Ruk: Fingernail replacement
Effect: Establishes a connection with one metal object within short range that a human could hold
in one hand. After this connection is established, the user can move or manipulate the object
anywhere within short range (each movement or manipulation is an action). For example, the user
could wield a weapon or drag a helm affixed to a foe's head to and fro. The connection lasts for
ten rounds.
 MANIPULATION BEAM
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Wand
Ruk: Spine graft with wires connected to glove
Effect: The user can activate the cypher a total number of times per day equal to the cypher's level.
Each time, the wearer can choose to affect an object she can see within long range that weighs no
more than an object she could physically affect. The effect must occur over the course of a round
and could include closing or opening a door, keying in a number on a keypad, transferring an
object a short distance, wresting an object from another creature's grasp (on a successful Mightbased roll), or pushing a creature an immediate distance.
 MAPPER
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: An electronic tablet
Ardeyn: A scroll of vellum
Ruk: A hovering bio drone with display
Effect: When activated, the device displays a scale map of the currently occupied recursion for
up to one hour. The user can focus in on specified geographic features to a resolution of about 8
feet (2 m) per map image section (in other words, a pixel). Features are not named, but the map
is a real-time rendition of the recursion, so objects or creatures large enough to show up in the
resolution can be seen.
 MATTER TRANSFERENCE RAY
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: Taserlike device
Ardeyn: Wand
Ruk: Small gunlike device
Effect: The user can target one nonliving object within long range that is no larger than the user
and whose level is less than or equal to the cypher's level. The object is transferred directly into a
random recursion. If the GM feels it appropriate to the circumstances, only a portion of an object
is transferred (a portion whose volume is no more than the user's). 
MEDITATION AID
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Cap covered with little wires
Ardeyn: Circlet
Ruk: An umbilical
Effect: Substance restores a number of points equal to the cypher level to the user's Intellect Pool.
MELT ALL
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: Plastic cylinder with clear liquid
Ardeyn: Flask with bubbling liquid
Ruk: Biopod filled with living slime
Effect: Once released, this organic slime dissolves 1 cubic foot (.03 cubic m) of material each
round. After one round per cypher level, the slime dies and becomes inert.
MEMORY SWITCH
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device with red switch
Ardeyn: Crystal globe
Ruk: A yellow pod
Effect: When the cypher is activated, select a point within long range. The minds of all thinking
creatures that are within immediate range of that point are attacked. If affected, a victim is dazed
and takes no action for a round, and she has no memory of the preceding hour.
MENTAL SCRAMBLER
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Violet gemstone
Ruk: Spore-filled pod
Effect: Two rounds after being activated, the device creates an invisible field that fills an area within
short range and lasts for one minute. The field scrambles the mental processes of all thinking
creatures. The effect lasts as long as they remain in the field and for 1d6 rounds after, although
they can attempt an Intellect defense roll each round to act normally (both in the field and after
leaving it). Each mental scrambler is keyed to a specific effect. Roll a d100 to determine the effect.
01–30 Victims cannot act.
31–40 Victims cannot speak.
41–50 Victims move slowly (immediate range) and clumsily.
51–60 Victims cannot see or hear.
61–70 Victims lose all sense of direction, depth, and proportion.
71–80 Victims do not recognize anyone they know.
81–88 Victims suffer partial amnesia.
89–94 Victims suffer total amnesia.
95–98 Victims lose all inhibitions, revealing secrets and performing surprising actions.
99–00 Victims' ethics are inverted.
MIND MELD
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Helmet covered with LEDs and wires
Ardeyn: A circlet with a red jewel
Ruk: An antenna graft
Effect: The user gains the ability to speak telepathically with creatures it can see within short range
for up to one hour. The user can't read a target's thoughts, except those specifically "transmitted." 
This effect transcends normal language barriers, but a target must have a mind that allows for
such communication to be possible.
MIND-RESTRICTING WALL
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Ring
Ruk: Forearm graft
Effect: Creates an immobile plane of permeable energy up to 20 feet by 20 feet (6 m by 6 m) for
one hour. The plane conforms to the space available. Intelligent creatures passing through the
plane fall unconscious for up to one hour, or until slapped awake or damaged.
MIND STABILIZER
Level: 1d6
Earth: Rose-colored glasses
Ardeyn: An eyepatch
Ruk: An extra-eye graft
Effect: The user gains +5 to Armor against Intellect damage, including damage gained from
alienation.
MONOBLADE
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Device similar to hilt
Ardeyn: Gauntlet
Ruk: Injection into fingertip
Effect: Produces a 6-inch (15 cm) blade that's the same level as the cypher. The blade cuts through
any material of a level lower than its own. If used as a weapon, it is a light weapon that ignores
Armor of a level lower than its own. The blade lasts for ten minutes.
 MONOHORN
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: A syringe filled with white liquid
Ardeyn: A magic rune inscribed on a scroll
Ruk: A thin spiral horn graft
Effect: When the cypher is activated, the user gains a single horn on the center of his forehead.
The horn is deadly sharp and strong, and it spirals down to a solid base where it fuses with the
user's flesh and bone. The user is specialized in making melee attacks with the horn, which is
considered a medium weapon. The horn lasts for a number of hours equal to the cypher's level.
 MULTIPHASIC MODULE
Level: 1d6
Earth: Small device affixed to a melee or ranged weapon
Ardeyn: Rune affixed to a melee or ranged weapon
Ruk: Pod affixed to a melee or ranged weapon
Effect: For the next day, the weapon can affect out-of-phase, transdimensional, ethereal, and
incorporeal creatures within the context of a given recursion; for instance, in Ardeyn, the weapon
would become spiritslaying. During this time, the weapon also inflicts 1 additional point of
damage to any target. (If the multiphasic module is attached to a ranged weapon, the ammunition
fired from the weapon gains the transdimensional property.)
 NULL FIELD
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: Smartphone app
Ardeyn: Scroll inscribed with a spell
Ruk: Spine
Effect: When activated, the user and all creatures within immediate range of the user gain +5 to
Armor against damage of a specified kind for one hour. Roll a d100 to determine the effect.
01–12 Fire
13–27 Cold
28–39 Acid
40–52 Psychic
53–65 Sonic
66–72 Electrical
73–84 Poison
85–95 Blunt force
96–00 Slashing and piercing
 NULLIFICATION RAY
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: Smartphone app
Ardeyn: Ring
Ruk: Small gunlike device
Effect: The user can immediately end one ongoing effect within long range that is produced by an
artifact, cypher, move, revision, or twist.
 NUTRITION AND HYDRATION
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Bulky pill
Ardeyn: Sugared plum
Ruk: Subdermal graft
Effect: User can go without food and water for a number of days equal to the cypher's level without
ill effect.
 PHASE CHANGER
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Harness with blinking LED lights
Ardeyn: Ring with wind motif
Ruk: Spine graft
Effect: Puts the user out of phase for one minute. During this time, she can pass through solid
objects as though she were entirely insubstantial, like a ghost. She cannot make physical attacks
or be physically attacked.
 PHASE WALL
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Smartphone app
Ardeyn: Staff
Ruk: A semiliving sheet of tissue
Effect: When the cypher is activated, a wall within long range up to 20 feet by 20 feet (6 m by 6 m)
that is 5 feet (2 m) or less thick looks the same, but for one hour, solid creatures and objects can
phase through it as if the wall wasn't there. 
RADIATION SPIKE
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Taserlike device
Ardeyn: Ring with lightning motif
Ruk: Subdermal implant
Effect: Delivers a powerful burst of radiation that disrupts the tissue of any creature touched,
inflicting damage equal to the cypher's level.
 RAY EMITTER
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Wand
Ruk: Shoulder-mounted module
Effect: Allows the user to project a ray of destructive energy up to 200 feet (61 m) that inflicts
damage equal to the cypher's level + 2. Roll a d100 to determine the effect.
01–50 Heat/concentrated light
51–60 Cell-disrupting radiation
61–80 Force
81–87 Magnetic wave
88–93 Molecular bond disruption
94–00 Concentrated cold
 RAY EMITTER (COMMAND)
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Wand
Ruk: Shoulder-mounted module
Effect: Allows the user to project a ray up to 200 feet (61 m) that forces a target to obey the next
verbal command given (if it is understood).
 RAY EMITTER (FRIEND SLAYING)
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Wand
Ruk: Shoulder-mounted module
Effect: Allows the user to project a ray up to 200 feet (61 m)
that causes the target to attack its nearest ally for one round.
 RAY EMITTER (FEAR)
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Wand
Ruk: Shoulder-mounted module
Effect: Allows the user to project a ray up to 200 feet (61 m)
that causes the target to flee in terror for one minute.
RAY EMITTER (MIND-DISRUPTING)
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: Lead ring
Ruk: Shoulder-mounted module
Effect: Allows the user to project a ray of destructive energy up to 200 feet (61 m) that inflicts
Intellect damage equal to the cypher's level. Also, the victim cannot take actions for a number of
rounds equal to the cypher's level.
RECURSION ANCHOR
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Spray can
Ardeyn: Grey elixir
Ruk: Injection
Effect: A creature or object affected by this cypher cannot translate or pass through an inapposite
gate for a day. The cypher contains enough energy to affect up to five creatures in immediate range
with one use.
RECURSION CODE
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Key fob
Ardeyn: Iron skeleton key
Ruk: Spider that chirps
Effect: The cypher serves as a recursion key to a specific location within a recursion. A recursion
key does not create a gate to the specified location on its own-the recursor must initiate a
translation and succeed on the translation roll normally. But on a successful roll, everyone
participating in the translation appears in the location specified by the key (not the default location
for the recursion, or the place the recursor initiating the translation left from).
 REFLEX ENHANCER
Level: 1d6
Earth: Wire-covered cap
Ardeyn: Peach-colored elixir
Ruk: A spine graft
Effect: The difficulty of any task involving manual dexterity, such as pickpocketing, lockpicking,
juggling, operating on a patient, defusing a bomb, and so on, is decreased by two steps for one
hour.
 REMEMBERING
Level: 1d6
Earth: Eyeglasses
Ardeyn: Silver torc
Ruk: Translucent head sac
Effect: Allows the wearer to mentally record everything she sees for thirty seconds and store the
recording permanently in her long-term memory. Useful for watching someone pick a specific lock,
enter a complex code, or do something else that happens quickly.
 REPEATING MODULE
Level: 1d6 + 1
Earth: Small device affixed to a ranged weapon
Ardeyn: Rune affixed to a ranged weapon
Ruk: Pod affixed to a ranged weapon
Effect: For the next minute, the ranged weapon fires one additional time with ammo fabricated by
the module. The weapon wielder can aim the free shot at the same target as the initiating shot, or
at a target next to the first.
 SHELTERING RECURSION
Level: 1d6 + 3
Earth: Handheld device
Ardeyn: A piece of cloth that can be unfolded into a 3-foot-diameter (1 m) hole
Ruk: A projector with a weaponlike appearance
Effect: A pocket-dimension-sized recursion is created that operates under the same law as the
recursion in which the cypher is used. A single inapposite gate is also created. Once used, the
device becomes inactive, but the recursion is permanent.
 SLAVE MAKER
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Submission collar
Ardeyn: A rune-scribed iron collar
Ruk: A mask
Effect: To activate the cypher, the user must succeed on a
melee attack against a creature about the size of the user and
whose level does not exceed the cypher's level. The cypher
bonds to the target, who immediately becomes calm. The
target awaits the user's commands and carries out all orders
to the best of its ability. The target remains so enslaved for a
number of hours equal to the cypher's level minus the target's
level. (If the result is 0, the target remains enslaved for one
minute; if the result is a negative number, the target remains
enslaved for just one round.)
 SLEEP INDUCER
Level: 1d6
Earth: Handheld taserlike device
Ardeyn: Glove
Ruk: Injector
Effect: A touch of this cypher puts the victim to sleep for ten minutes or until awoken by a violent
action or an extremely loud noise.
 SNIPER MODULE
Level: 1d6
Earth: Small device affixed to a ranged weapon
Ardeyn: Rune affixed to a ranged weapon
Ruk: Pod affixed to a ranged weapon
Effect: For the next hour, the weapon's effective range increases to 2 miles (3 km).
 SPEED BOOST
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Small plastic bottle of ingestible liquid
Ardeyn: Leather boots
Ruk: Adhesive patch that activates when slapped
Effect: Adds 1 to Speed Edge for one hour.
SPYING GRENADE
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Handheld device that controls tiny drone
Ardeyn: Tiny winged golem
Ruk: Graft that launches tiny bioengineered wasp
Effect: When activated, the cypher produces a tiny spying object that resists detection as a level
8 creature due to its nature. The spying object moves at great speed, mapping and scanning an
unknown area. It moves 500 feet (152 m) per level, scanning an area up to 50 feet (15 m) away
from it. It identifies basic layout, creatures, and major energy sources. Its movement is blocked
by any physical or energy barrier. At the end of its mapping run, it returns to the user and reports.
If it discovers a predefined target during that period (such as "a creature of level 5 or higher," "a
locked door," "a major energy source," and so on), it detonates instead. All creatures and objects
within short range take electrical and shrapnel damage equal to the cypher's level.
 STASIS KEEPER
Level: 1d6
Earth: A small device that inflates a clear plastic bubble when activated, into which the subject is
placed
Ardeyn: A small urn filled with powder, to be poured on the subject
Ruk: A tube containing clear gel, to be applied to the subject
Effect: Puts a subject into stasis for a number of days equal to the cypher's level, or until violently
disturbed. An object in stasis does not age and comes out of the stasis alive and in the same
condition as it went in, with no memory of the period of inactivity.
 STIM
Level: 1d6
Earth: Small can or bottle of ingestible liquid
Ardeyn: Bronze bracers
Ruk: Adhesive patch that activates when slapped
Effect: Decreases the difficulty of the next action taken by three steps.
 STRANGE AMMUNITION
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: An ammo clip that fits any firearm
Ardeyn: A quiver of arrows
Ruk: A nodule that affixes to any weapon that fires ammunition
Effect: Modifies a weapon's attack in a particular fashion for one hour. Roll a d100 for effect:
01–10 Decreases difficulty of attack by one step
11–20 Deals bonus electrical damage equal to cypher level
21–30 Deals bonus cold damage equal to cypher level
31–40 Deals bonus poison damage equal to cypher level
41–50 Deals bonus acid damage equal to cypher level
51–60 Deals bonus fire damage equal to cypher level
61–70 Deals bonus sonic damage equal to cypher level
71–80 Deals bonus psychic damage equal to cypher level
81–90 Knockback (on 18–20 on successful attack roll, target knocked back 30 feet [9 m])
91–95 Holding (on 18–20 on successful attack roll, target can't act on its next turn)
96–97 Decreases difficulty of attack by two steps
98 Banishing (on 18–20 on successful attack roll, target is sent to random recursion)
99 Explodes, inflicting damage equal to cypher level to all within immediate range of target
00 Heart-seeking (on 18–20 on successful attack roll, target is slain)
STRANGE APOTHEOSIS
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Red pill shaped like a fractal
Ardeyn: Golden elixir with fractal-shaped golden particulates
Ruk: A fractal-shaped graft
Effect: The user chooses up to three foci she's previously gained through translation. For one hour,
she can access and use any trained skills or special abilities provided by any of the selected foci.
 STRENGTH BOOST
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Large yellow pill
Ardeyn: Gemstone that adheres to temple
Ruk: False tooth
Effect: Adds 1 to Might Edge for one hour.
 STRENGTH ENHANCER
Level: 1d6
Earth: A glowing blue pill
Ardeyn: Cobalt-colored elixir
Ruk: A spine graft
Effect: The difficulty of any noncombat task involving raw
strength, such as breaking down a door, lifting a heavy boulder,
forcing open elevator doors, competing in a weightlifting
competition, and so on, is decreased by two steps for the user for one hour.
 SURVEILLANCE SET
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Eyeglasses and tiny device
Ardeyn: Two matched gems
Ruk: Two matched pods
Effect: This cypher comes in two pieces. If one piece is placed at a specific location, whoever holds
the other matched piece can choose to see and hear everything going on at the target location
as if she were there. Checking on the remote location requires an action. The on-site piece of the
cypher hides its location at a level equal to the cypher level + 2. Lasts for one day.
 TELEPATHIC BOND
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Pills with MENTO logo
Ardeyn: Tiny feathered dragons
Ruk: Organic pods that adhere to forehead
Effect: For one hour, the device enables mental communication with anyone who has a matching
unit, regardless of how far the users are from each other (even if they are in different recursions).
These devices are always found in groups of two or more.
 TEMPORARY SHIELD
Level: 1d6
Earth: Jacket
Ardeyn: Cloak
Ruk: Organimer bracer
Effect: For one hour, the wearer of the activated cypher receives an asset to Speed defense rolls.
TISSUE REGENERATION
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: Green pill
Ardeyn: Tiny bird that animates and sits on user's shoulder
Ruk: Adhesive patch that activates when slapped
Effect: For the next hour, the character regenerates 1 point of damage per round, up to a total
number of points equal to twice the cypher's level. The character can choose which Pool to add
each point to as it becomes available. If the character achieves maximum health, the regeneration
pauses until the character becomes damaged again, at which point regeneration begins again (if
any reserve regeneration time remains) until the overall duration expires.
 TRACKER
Level: 1d6
Earth: Smart watch
Ardeyn: Basin filled with water
Ruk: Gunlike device with display
Effect: The base device creates an invisible tracker that clings to any surface within short range.
For the next day, the base device shows the distance and direction to the tracker, as long as both
are in the same recursion. If the tracker moves into a different recursion, the base device shows
the distance and direction to the nearest gate that leads to that recursion, if any.
 TRANSLATION REMEDY
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Game card
Ardeyn: White crystal
Ruk: Injection
Effect: Eases a translation attempt. If someone is already easing the attempt, the recovery time
after the translation is only one round. If the recovery time is already reduced to one round by
another method, the difficulty of post-translation tasks for everyone involved in the translation is
reduced by one step for one minute.
 TRANSVOLUTION
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: A large poster, unrolled and affixed to a solid surface
Ardeyn: Chalk used to scribe a circle 5 feet (2 m) in diameter
Ruk: Pod anchored on solid surface that projects the hologram of a door
Effect: Once activated (a process requiring two rounds of setup), an inapposite doorway to another
specific location is created. The location can be within the same recursion or to a specific location in
another recursion. A doorway to a location in the Strange can also be created, but only if this cypher
is not used on a prime world (such as Earth). The doorway lasts for up to one minute.
 TRICK EMBEDDER
Level: 1d6
Earth: Dog treat
Ardeyn: Bone with inscribed rune
Ruk: Subdermal implant
Effect: A nonintelligent animal immediately and perfectly learns one trick it is capable of physically
performing (roll over, heel, spin, shake, go to an indicated place within long range, and so on).
The trick must be designated when the cypher is activated. 
UNINTERRUPTIBLE POWER SOURCE
Level: 1d6 + 4
Earth: A medium-sized unit with several power hook-ups
Ardeyn: A glowing crystal as tall as a person
Ruk: A tiny device with organic elements
Effect: Once activated, the device provides power appropriate to some other device
for up to a day. The device to be powered can be as simple as a light source or as
complex as a small starcraft, assuming the cypher's level is equal to the item's power
requirements. A desk lamp is the equivalent of a level 1 power requirement, a car
engine is a level 5 power requirement, and a starship is a level 10 power requirement.
 VANISHER
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Circuit-embedded cloak with paired battery belt
Ardeyn: Three iron rings and a crown woven together
Ruk: Temporary skin graft
Effect: User becomes invisible for ten minutes. While invisible, she is specialized in stealth
and Speed defense tasks. This effect ends if the user does something to reveal her presence or
position-attacking, using an ability, moving a large object, and so on. If this occurs, the user can
regain the remaining invisibility effect by taking an action to focus on hiding her position.
 VISUAL DISPLACEMENT DEVICE
Level: 1d6
Earth: Belt with holographic buckle display
Ardeyn: Bone bracelet
Ruk: Shoulder-mounted pod
Effect: Projects holographic images of the wearer to confuse attackers. The images appear around
the wearer. This gives him an asset to Speed defense actions for ten minutes.
VOCAL TRANSLATOR
Level: 1d6
Earth: Disk that must be held to forehead
Ardeyn: Headband
Ruk: An organ graft shaped like a trout
Effect: Translates everything said by the user into a language that anyone within earshot can
understand for a day.
 WATER ADAPTER
Level: 1d6
Earth: Sea-green pill
Ardeyn: Leather facemask
Ruk: Face graft
Effect: User can breathe underwater and operate at any depth (without facing debilitating
consequences of changing pressure) for eight hours.
 WINGS
Level: 1d6 + 2
Earth: Backpack from which mini-jets sprout
Ardeyn: Billowy blue cloak
Ruk: Spinal graft that sprouts insectlike wings
Effect: User can fly at her normal running speed for one hour.
